
Tues.


Next Tues, in person, 
solution to learning exercise, design project.

http://www-inst.cs.berkeley.edu/~cs161/sp19/

http://www-inst.cs.berkeley.edu/~cs161/sp19/lectures/lec15_net_5.pdf

TLS will be in the test.
very important.

2109.03.12

PS parameter secret.

hmac

hash.
O(1)
unless hash to same.
attacker may use it, generate O(N).

so, instead of generic hash, use a hash with random number, ie HMAC (??)

use alg that has good worse case running time.
hmac has worse case expected time not dependent on input.


captcha is really forcing attacker to spend resource to connect.


captcha solving server.
forward to massive human farm in indonesia... 
cost a few seconds.
cost money too.

way overprovision, if have lots of money.
which is what akamai, cloudflare, ... does.
content delivery network.

they have a vastly overprovisioned network.  
need a massive DDoS to bring them down.

CloudFlare was for a while hosting the service for DDoS as well.  
	so, arm thiefs so folks buy the service!!!



evasion attack
semantics diff b/w firewall and attack destination.
eg was with different TTL.


SSL, makes stateful inspection on firewall hard.  actually, how?  not covered in class.

berkeley has a vpn server 
accessible for everyone.

useful for accessing elsievere... other paywalled journals.
cool service.


firewall:
peer2peer don't work well w/ firewall.

permiter.
if bad guy is inside, all bets are off.

larger perimeter, has to get weaker.

not all net traffic goes thru firewall.

not all network goes to internet.
but due to laptop, internet will reach most network.

attack via pivoting.

typically allow outbound 443.





