



side note
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35931380/mapbox-typescript

talk about mapbox, npm, angular.

angular need typescript, which is static type superset that transcompile to javascript



Developer Week 2019 conference Day 2 of open pass (Friday 2019.02.22)



getElementByID() of js ...

Agora.io building video chat 
============================

9am.

they build their network outside the internet.
so that they can control the network latency.
global private network.

for high speed.

all cdn now use https.
when local is http, but not allowed to mix.
can use *ngrok* to help work around this.

        ngrok - secure introspectable tunnels to localhost
        avail on npm


agora is all event based.


heroku was mentioned a few times.  seems popular.




Your Data Layer: Choosing the right Solution for the Future.  (choose DB) 9:30am
===========================================================

booth 324 for info on hiring

postgres
json support
and other expansion, 
without sacrificing what orig product was.

commercialization of tech
open source...  
but the biz behind want to expand
even when tech has reached saturation in adoption of the orig purpose of the db.
so biz add fn...
but then become bloated.
sometime the feature add is at expense of the original use case.
(eg mongoDB support ACID now.  ??did it slow down its core perf??)


open source tech is still very healthy on db tech
as commercialization make db , new open source project take shape and hold.

ployglot persistence.

use multiple db, diff req use diff db, to rip best benefits.
no longer have expert in house.
use consulting service

reddis is good for key-value store, cache
mongoDB is for document

?? is good for search

DBaaS <- objectRocket (part of rackable)
        lower cost
        don't be locked to cloud/db vendor.
        they are consulting service really.
        recommend the right db for the solution.
        polyglot.  ie, use many diff db.




Where is headless CMS arch headed
==================================

10am
Russ Danner.  Crafter SW.


CMS is a pain.
don't fit in devops model.
cms is heart of digital management.  but it is slowing a lot of adoption of new tech.

        cms :
        heavy weight lang and framework backend
        eg say have angular support, but not for react.
        monolitic arch
        hard to scale.  hard to be on demand.

        was created for marketing to publish content.
        no major innovation in storage layer for long time.

headless CMS - (their product it seems)

multi-channel. 
api first
number of traditional CMS created API, but same back end.

serve content as api.

may not be more scalable.  may still be silo'd
same arch, just diff presentation.

headless cms don't seems to be programmable.

the world is not about static content anymore, but in dynamic content.

where does the content live?

how to create consistent customer experience

agility.  creating a simple web site is still hard with CMS.

authoring experience is going back 1 year.
no easy way to preview anymore.

CMS headed to hybrid headless

API.  serve content as json.

but authoring experience need to be great.  
operations.  

DevContentOps.  move code forth, move content back.  need to be seamless.

content need to have branches, multiple team.

need to become elastic and serverless.
        docker, kubernetes.

        cms is hard to scale when centralized.



versioning at code line level is bogus.
repository layer.
crafter is working to use git, not db.
need to restore the view of the universe at a certain time.

support scripting on server.
node.js
        
propose share nothing arch.
want to go serverless (is he saying docker/kubernetes as serverless?)
        microservices.


cms like lambda, need a service that starts quickly.  need high performance.

        
    

PubNub
======

OPEN TALK: The Single Most Important Technological Trend Shaping the Human Experience
Sign up or log in to save this to your schedule and see who's attending!

not sure what is is about...
Todd Greene

6 years.
marketing team come up with this topic.

keyhole . acquired by google to become Earth.

The Hollywood Operating System.
they have trained user to demand a lot.

3.3 billion smartphone live in use.  

India, $6/mo get like 2 GB of LTE data/day.  per day!!!  how is sh1t so expensive in the US??!!

SoC w/ wifi is now < $1 !!


pubnub is some 
web stack 

rest-based arch moves to streaming.

cuz tweeter, pokemon, tried to be real time for large audience and failed.

fake with Request response.
polling constantly.  
fake working.
battery drainage
bandwidth cost.


connect, 
data stream network.
pubnet is 
   like akamai in 90s.
:set no list
	30ms across countries.
real time data
core messaging bust

75% of company try to do their own.
xmpp
and number of other protocols.

company should not try to build their own protocol, but their app.
100 peep in the company.

deliver data 
largest dumb messaging bus.
	ie put data on one end, come out the other.

but increasingly see that need biz logic in the middle.
so became a control layer problem.

let customer add code

fog computing, edge computing.

now realize need to keep state as well.
sentiments, leaderboards.
from 10s of billion of connections

redbull was guy jumping out of ballon.
was previous big streaming 



architecture.  trends in storage and memory, that will induce change in sw.
=================================

Western Digital.

nvram 
potentially cheaper than dram.
cuz of higher density.
use cross point

crosspoint memory, use a diff memory standard.

HPC.  interested in memory bandwidth, this could be a huge boost.

dram has row buffer.
row buffer is higher perf in 2nd read cuz it is cached.

crosspoint may not need row buffer.

crosspoint may need ecc.  introduce new timing constrain.

crosspoint use two energy wave to write, no need for resistor, so higher density.
thus cheaper.
it being non volatile is side effect.
may not have a lot of effect to current sw arch.

but need new standard to access.

coherency bus.
make sure cache for process is coherent.
also need other cpu to use the memory on other socket.

former memory access is independent of other cpu.

memory fabric.
access memory on another chip ?
and it is like storage access

RISC-V 
WD is cofonder.
they ship such core as HD.

coherent memory

summary
need new open interface in this space
memory
storage

11:30
solr, spark
===========

lucidworks

spark as ML
logistic regression.
but need a bunch of work in production.

spark is good for building ML
but don't serve that to prod very well.
spark was very opinionated.

pytorch
dl4j

TF becaome the end thing most folks wanted.

main use case.
search and discovery task.

search engine.  char base predictor.
eg search for ipa.
want to intersect with good result, not just a word predictor.

sentiment analysis, recommendation.
search and recommendation is like two side of the same coin.
recommendation is search for things that not exactly sure what is looking for

conceirge service.  

logistic regression still good and valuable and do good things.



XGBoost 


MLeap
shim layer b/w spark and production

general challenges in ML
not using latest lib.

but JS is challenging as it seems like new framework every week!

lucid try to do everything in solr.
lucidwork: 
use blob store as db in s3

search engine become data as a service

solr is good with streaming expression.
for data warehouse
scoring and ranking the data.
feed via spark


tomtom booth
====

first 10,000 transaction per day is free.
so essentially free to do dev/demo.

one click on map to geocode location is 1 transaction.
route is one transaction.
search is a transaction

(so actually can be expensive quickly).

there is way to put data and present as heatmap
but definately nowhere near mapbox, at least not on demo shown to me.

map as vector, there were like (50?) map tiles to be considered as 1 transaction.
i guess enough map to fill the screen.

maybe as zoom changes req more tiles and so more transactions.

(again, no motivation to change from mapbox, but good to know what they are up to).
tomtom moving from device company to API company.


atlasian journay thru microservice
==========

1pm (friday)
acq eg trello


jira and confluence.
independent, no code sharing.
hard to scale back in 2015.
they want to be out of DC biz, 
want to move to cloud, add value to customer.
make multi-tenant.

need app layer to be stateless.
(everyone is talking about going stateless!!)

vertigo proj, largest done in atlassian.

very biz talk, how microservice wreck havoc.
monolith works well for small size, till it reach a breaking point.

they wanted the engineer to feel the pain of using cloud microservice, so they will solve those problem, 
so customer can use their servie without those pain.

did not get anything tech out of this talk.



HERE
====

location service business.
the question of "where?" is what they do.
googele map api.  tomtom, mapbox. 


2018 in Google.
what happened?
google jack up price to map api dramatically.
depending on what you look at it, 15x, 9000%

origin of HERE.com
navtech, then nokia, now an offshoot of nokia.
was mostly automobile industry.
now make API avail to everyone.

they were about to make free plan to lower barrier of entry.
right around time google jacked up the price.


client --> lambda --> google maps.
					  here.com.... swap out google easily if there is a middle layer.

maps is easy app.
"where" is harder.
location service is more than visual mapping.
developer.here.com
have a blog/tutorial.  chatbot about amazon lex, slack, 

how to create custom chatbot , see if it is geofenced.
1 hour to do the work.
cool to do a first chatbot, geofneced app.
and not a single map use in this app.
only use gps coordinate.

upload polygon to the tutorial.
location service is not just a map.

question of "where" is not often addressed in quetsion
but this can improve answer
and it does not need a map.

using location as connection.
it is another dimention to the data.

smart cities.
new term: (hard word) idetea of cities.
ideatea
expand, beyond human, 
location is important.

idinvest? 


3pm nintendo switch.
sign up at their booth to be in drawing.


kubernetes/security
=====

2pm
Redhat

hybrid cloud, multitenancy

security was aftertought, as hindrance.

DevSecOps

open container initiative
CI open

kubernetes.
std for managing container across hybrid env.
a way to standardize process and tooling anywhere.

automation at scale
declarative dev

front end pod with service

selector and lable method 
for swapping bad container

treat container as immutable.
this improve security.

config maps

openSCAP security scan
foreman
security scan as part of CI/CD pipeline

A/B testing.
eg marketting testing different idea.
can use 
version label of kubernetes.
version=A
version=B
then use kubernetes to deploy in certain %

swtich b/w dev and prod db.
don't hard code into container image
or in kube cluster.

create a db service with cluster ip

those external have routable IP.

kubernetes assoc endpoint (assoc name with ip).

change endpoint ip to prod instance when needed.
no need to bring down the app tier
change endpoint obj in kubernetes.
switch from dev to prod db just like that.

stateful set
it is a sticky network name
eg mongo-0, mongo-1, 
allow for persistent storage


db migration


DJI
====

drones. api for collecting data, controlling drone.
Ares could use this to collect data?

drone mostly fly itself, just take "desire" from user where to go.
avoid obstacle (fly in dense forest, avoid ladder, pickup truck).
how does it know what is at ground level?)

payload.  could be lidar.  capture survey quality data.

api allow develop of routes to loop around building to ensure cover complete area.
many sw dev indeed to go with the hw drones they have could be develope to build new feature/capabilities.

tool for surveyor.
rail, wind turbine, 
etc.  they see drone as the new hammer.  but very stringent req, if not met, don't use it at all. 
not a toy.



OSS sw license
=====

*fossa-analyze*
crate a build for project
tell dependencies
create a list of license used.
list dependendies... all compiled, help make sure is in correct permissive open source license 
(for project that want to be commercialized).







developer.here.com boot
====


switchtohere as project name
for drawing
used personal email
token, locked to the domain.
so api respond only when within that domain.
actually still not sure.  
client is web client.
maybe means that it is server side call to the app?

could not find the studio .
use direct URL
https://explore.xyz.here.com/
(oh, it is in beta)
need dob, 1975.0101

add data, can update geojson.

don't like it.  too rudimentary, not much feature.

uploaded ZWEDC 50x50 geojson, 
could not see the data on map.
no styling gui like mapbox studio has.









squirel.ai learning
==========

3:15pm
(are they chinese company??  had chinese char in name
speaker is american)

said to be widely avail.

want student to learn as quickly as they can.
adaptive teaching.
key metric: PKS.
probability  knowledge state.

how likely student learned the material correctly.
PKS is from 3 factor.  kinda like PCA.

PKS of 0 is neutral


whole talk is about how PKS is calculated, which is a central to their learning system.
seems to compete with former employer ALEKS.

not sure what's the point of this talk.
and it was a keynote.

there is no talk about AI.
it is a formula Dan Bindman came up with.
whatever.





3:40 closing ceremony
=====================

