Yann LeCun ACM talk on DL
=========================

recorded.  will be avail in learning.acm.org

gphotos link: 

perceptron is single layer 

motif ... combination of edges... which is made of pixels.

hierarchy

deep learning cuz it has multiple layers.  just as simple as that.

reinforcement learning, don't need to tell the machine what's right.
self explored.
but system need to learn many many times with the env even on simple things.
eg play many games to 
80 hours to reach human reach in 15 min.
but it does get better after that.
alpha-go.  play 20 million games, 2 weeks on 2000 cpu.
200 years of real time play on single map starcraft.

so, implactical to use to train self-driving car.
car need to crash many times before it learn not to crash.
don't have a real model of the world.

linear -> non linear -> linear
can detect anything

but for complex fn, need more complex model.

more parallel, need bigger batch, more side effects.

automatic delineation in other domain.
here called back-propagation.
pytorch, etc automatically do this.
specify graph and output, does the compute automatically.

structure of the network.

DL...
figuring out a good arch
sparse matrix.
visual cortex.
neuron not connected to all optical fibers.
(local receptive field).
look at neighbours


learnign to reason??
hard
answer comlex question
system need working memory
store meaning of text

self-supervised learning
to simulate how baby and animal learn by observation


work today.  work well for NLP.
don't work well for recreating images.  artifacts clearly visible, human do much better.
	how to hanedle uncertainties is not well understood.
	predict next few frame of video is blurry, cuz it is avg many possible future scenario.
	again, clearly, computer don't understand the objects and model of the world.
for speech recognition, not too well.

with adversarial training to predict video does better.
	train a second NN
	generator vs discriminator
	(actual future of video frame is discriminator, 
	generator get feedback of how well it did

	predict what other cars will do
	WHAT?? autonomous vehicle don't have any model of future??!!
	maybe just very crude one using other tech

speed up learning of prediction.
	

	


